# Research Question
In the NBA, over the regular season, do international players have a higher Individual Efficiency Metric (EFF), a metric that takes into account points, rebounds, assists, steals, blocks, missed field goals and free throws, turnovers, and games played, than players born in the United States?

# Background & Prior Work
The dominance of international talent such as Luka Doncic, Nikola Jokic, and Giannis Antetokounmpo in the National Basketball Association (NBA) is impossible to ignore. These players, however, were only a few of the standout international players. This past season, six international players were indoctrinated to the All-NBA Team, an honor granted to the overall best players in the league for that season [1]. The presence of international talent in the NBA has also seen a steady incline as, in the league's first season in 1946-47, there were a mere five international players compared to a record 113 international players at the start of the 2016-17 season [1]. After seeing these statistics, it becomes clear that international players are undoubtedly leaving their mark and making history in the league. As fans of the NBA, we became curious and set out to compare the performances of international and national talent in the league.

In an article from HoopsHype, a branch of USA Today Sports, Frank Urbina constructs a hypothetical roster of players for a USA vs. Rest of the World game with the USA roster consisting of the best USA NBA players and the Rest of the World roster consisting of the best international NBA players. Urbina believes the international team have the advantage in playmaking and rebounding while US players have the edge when it comes to shooting and athleticism [2]. Urbina stresses how close he thinks the matchup would be, but overall believes that team USA would have the slight edge [2]. The matchup Urbina has constructed is only hypothetical and inconclusive in which he makes use of speculation to compare how players would match up against each other. In our study, we plan to attach empirical data to these players to see how they truly compare against each other.

On the subject of calculating a player's performance, an article from Watts Basketball discussing how professionals in the league calculate player efficiency will be of use to us. We decided to go with the Efficiency Metric (EFF) which adds up total points, rebounds, assists, blocks, and steals, while also accounting for turnovers and missed field goals and free throws [3]. We will then divide this score by the total amount of minutes played throughout the regular season for each individual player [3]. We plan to do this for each season so we can also track how player performance fluctuates from season to season. This formula aids in our study as it gives us a method of attaching a quantitative value to a player in order to ensure we have a fair comparison.

### References:

1) https://www.nba.com/news/nba-rosters-feature-109-international-player

2) https://hoopshype.com/lists/nba-all-star-game-theoretical-usa-vs-world
